<h1>Religion and Religious Beliefs<h1>
<br><br>
Victorian age is an interesting and exciting topic. Where religion beliefs began to be questioned. Because of development and progress that has been made by technology and science. Here we look a little closer at how and why beliefs in old religions started to change.
Church was an important factor for the England people during the Victorian era. They visited the church regularly, read the bible often and that was because they feared god.
Christianity in the Victorian era began to be questioned. Christianity was a well-organized religion that the people followed for a long time. But they received hard criticism at the end of the Victorian era. The reasons why Victorian era beliefs started to change were two main themes. The changes that lead to the industrial revolution and the emergence of new scientific ideologies. Which made it challenging to the old religious beliefs and superstitions that had a deep impact on people's lives.
<br><br>
The number of educated people increased in society. Development in the industry gave new opportunities to the individuals in the nation. It made it possible for urbanization to occur and leave the agricultural work behind.
Communication and travel became much easier. Traveling from one place to another, was not difficult. These developments were a good aspect to drive away the people from religion and belief in Christianity. The Victorians were completely focused on agriculture and religion before industrialization. They didn’t know that something existed outside their doors. These developments have changed people’s mindset and the whole society.
The lifestyle after the industrial growth changed quite rapidly. The people wanted to be free, prioritize their job and travel to different places in the country to get a better life. Many citizen preferred to do their own business and find a job based on science. However, there wasn’t many individuals who wanted to become a priest or minister. The Church lost its power, developments in industry and science began to influence people's lives.
Charles Darwin was a Victorian era naturalist. He questioned the religious beliefs and made it imbalanced.  Darwin wrote a book called the “Origin of the Species”. It was basically a theory that man had been evolved just like plants and microorganisms. According to the website “Victorian-era.org” Darwin said man evolved through the process of natural selection and it was a result of the environment around him.
All of these things have taken place during the Victorian era.
<br><br>
