Victorian era - Technology and Science

The Victorian era was a revolutionary time for science and technology. Communication, trade and travel took huge steps and improvements during the Victorian age as many new and improving inventions were made. Morse code, telegraphy and then the telephone, all revolutionary inventions that brought forth a new era of communication all while steam power allowed for trains and steamships to be modernized.

Travel also made huge steps forward with the railway and steamships. Steam engines actually predates the Victorian era but during this time the steam engine was updated and made more advanced, leading to this push in transportation. The modernization of steam engines and electricity would go on to replace human labor in a lot of areas such as farms and hand made production. This development of machines also led to the factory system.

The first steamship to cross the atlantic was in 1819 and it took roughly 26 days. This was before princess Victoria’s reign, but steamships made major improvements during her time.
Shortly after the Victorian age started, in 1838, 19 years later, another steamship sailed across the Atlantic Ocean, from Great Britain to New York in 14 and a half days. Weighing 3270 ton it could carry 360 passengers. 15 years later, in 1953, steamships could carry twice the amount of passengers and travel from London to Australia, quite efficiently actually. These ships had trade routes to different countries all over the world, such as Egypt, South Africa, India, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand.

The railway system also made huge leaps during the Victorian era. Railways expanded from being local to span over miles and miles of range, and by the year 1845 2441 miles of railway were open to the public. The modernization of the railway system revolutionised public transport. Trains were quite affordable, allowing almost all citizens to use trains for travel. The railway kept on expanding and expanding while improving safety, speed and comfort. The speed more than doubled from 30 miles per hour up to 70 later on. Signals were made to improve safety and more comfortable cabins were implemented. There were even sleeping cars made for long distance travel.
No doubt all of these inventions have had a huge impact on our society, both back then and today.

Some other notable inventions of the Victorian era were the photograph, ice cream, the penny farthing (the first bicycle), the sewing machine, the lightbulb and electric light in general.

Sources:
http://www.bbc.co.uk/history/british/victorians/victorian_technology_01.shtml
http://www.simplehistory.co.uk/time-travel/victorian-technology-and-inventions/
http://www.oxfordbibliographies.com/view/document/obo-9780199799558/obo-9780199799558-0075.xml
